# Contributing guide

## Style

We keep code clean and constantly refactoring it for better readability, maintainability, and performance.
- It is totally fine and encouraged to refactor existing code and send PRs for that. Event if it is a small renaming or a typo fix.
- Do not mix up refactoring with new features/bug fixes in a single PR.

## AI Generated Code

Of course you can use AI tools to _help_ you write code (who can ban you from that?) but in this case, please make sure to:
- Manually review and test all AI-generated code before submitting it
- State clearly in the PR description which parts of the code were generated by AI tools
- Prefer small, focused AI-generated snippets over large chunks of code
- Ensure that AI-generated code adheres to the project's coding style and guidelines

> [!WARNING]
> If we find AI-generated code that is not reviewed or tested, we may ask you to remove it or even close the PR.

# General

## Dependencies

We prefer to keep dependencies to a minimum so we can control the code quality, build process, and security. Also, we know how slow a compilation can get with too many dependencies. Therefore, if you are thinking about adding a new dependency, please consider checking with the maintainers first.

## Branching Strategy

We use the `main` branch as the default branch and create tags for releases. For new features and bug fixes, please create feature branches from `main` and open pull requests against `main`.

Prior starting work on a PR, please ensure that you have an issue created for it and assinged to yourself. If a scope of work is less than existing issue, create a new issue and link it to the parent one.

## Branch Naming

Make branch names inherit the issue that it addresses. The pattern is: `<issue-number>-<type>-<short-description>`.

Examples:
- If you work on a new _feature_ "9 - Develop Linker", name your branch `9-feature-develop-linker`.
- If you work on a _bug fix_ "15 - Fix Parser Crash", name your branch `15-bug-fix-parser-crash`.

## Commit Messages

Please, do not use emoji in commit messages. Keep them simple and descriptive. Avoid tagging people `@` because in case of rebasing or playing with history it may lead to unwanted notifications.

## Clippy

We use `clippy` but sometimes it is too lound. In this case, it is ok to disable specific warnings.

# Code

## Tests

We tend to have as good test coverage as possible. At the same time we keep a balance between writing redundant test that can be make the codebase less readable and maintainable. Please keep in mind this balance when writing tests.

Every PR (except for documentation-only changes and renaming) must include tests that cover the changes made.

### Unit Tests

When writing unit tests, you probably need to have Inference source code as input. In this case, locate the code on top of the test with in a compact format. For example:

```rust
```

### Code Generation Tests